---
template: blog-post
title: Our Story
slug: /ourstory
date: 2020-09-06 01:01
description: featured-home
featuredImage: /assets/ourstory.jpg
---
I was all of 10 when I saw that all children are not equal. While I was able to lead a carefree life and able to pursue education with relative ease, I noticed that the same was not the case with my maid’s son. His name was Vijay, while it may mean victory, his life was anything but. He used to come to my house in his uniform and, I used to play with him after school while he accompanied his mother as she worked in multiple houses. One day when I came back from school, I noticed he wasn’t wearing his uniform. I thought nothing of it initially and played with him as normal. But when this happened for a week, I asked him why he isn’t in his uniform anymore, to which he casually replied that it was because he hadn’t been going to school. At the time it was a novel concept to me. I always enjoyed school. And I had grown up hearing about the hardships of my parents and their struggles with education and how education and education alone had helped them alleviate themselves from poverty.
 So that night, during dinner I asked my mother why Vijay had stopped going to school. Surprisingly, she was unaware of this development. I informed her that it had been over a week since he had gone to school. So the next day, my mom asked our maid the reason. Apparently, her husband had gotten injured and was unable to earn much money and thus they faced financial issues and withdrew Vijay from school to save money. I was really upset about this and I told my mother that we should help ensure that Vijay can continue his studies.\
	My parents agreed and helped pay for his school. But this brought a new question to my mind. How many Vijays were there who were losing out on education due to a lack of funds. To this my parents said that if we are going to do this, we must do it right. Thus began our journey to set up a non profit trust to help students. The first issue came in the form of setting up the trust itself. The wait time in Maharashtra at the time was about 7 years. Irritated at the government’s bureaucracy and wanting quicker results, I started researching alternative options. It was then I found that, a trust could be registered in Tamil Nadu quite quickly (which worked well as we are tamilians). 
	We finally incorporated the trust in 2009 and named it Jayakalyan (Jaya means victory and Kalyan means prosperity) which is an homage to my grandmother, Jayakamakshi. Over the years, I have had the opportunity to meet many of the recipients of the funds that my family and I have disbursed. Their tales of adversity make all of mine pale in comparison. But, it is due to that, that I have persevered. After all, I saw that helping a single student with education, helps not only him but also his entire family in upward social mobility. This was particularly the reason that I always set aside a part of any competition winnings and wages I receive towards the fund. Today, it has been over 10 years since we incorporated. Over the years we have been able to fund about 20 students through personal funds and donations of close to INR40 lakh. While this itself is a matter of great pride for me, I hope to leverage the prestigious network I have gained access to as part of IIM-C and the career opportunities I receive from here to expand both the scope and scale of the enterprise.

***\-By Vandith B.K***